README.rst, before:

psp-validation
================

Validation of post synaptic potential.


Installation
------------

The project is available as a module.

.. code:: bash

    module load unstable neurodamus-hippocampus psp-validation

Usage
-----
It is recommended to run the project only on BB5.

Cli
^^^
The recommended usage is via the command line interface API. To run simulations of psp with
the test data:

.. code:: bash

    psp run
        -c tests/input_data/simple/simulation_config.json \
        -t tests/input_data/simple/usecases/hippocampus/targets.yaml \
        -e default \
        tests/input_data/pathway.yaml \
        -o out \
        -n 1 \
        -r 1 \
        -j 1 \
        --dump-traces \
        --dump-amplitudes \
        --seed 400

`-vv` options stands for verbosity of log output. There are 3 different values for it: `-v`, `-vv`,
`-vvv`. `-v` is for showing only warnings and errors. `-vv` additionally to `-v` shows info
messages. `-vvv` additionally shows debug messages. By default `-v` is used. This flag is common to
all NSE projects, and is usually used right after the main command and before the supplementary
command. The main command is `psp`, the supplementary command is `run`.

Testing
^^^^^^^
It is highly suggested to use BB5 for running tests manually.

.. code:: bash

    tox -e py310

Transition from BlueConfig to Sonata
------------------------------------

Simulations using BlueConfig and Sonata describing the same circuit have been run to validate
the transition.

``psp-validation`` using ``BlueConfig`` + ``bglibpy`` returns the same exact results as when using ``SONATA`` + ``bluecellulab``.
However, there are a few caveats:

* internal seeds of bluecellulab/bglibpy need to be manually fixed to same numbers

* same edges (pre-post pairs) need to be selected

* ``bluecellulab`` needs to be tweaked to use ``afferent_section_pos`` from a ``h5`` file

  * fix for this is pending (see: https://github.com/BlueBrain/BlueCelluLab/pull/168)

* if ``libsonata<0.1.25`` is used with SONATA configs, make sure ``celsius=34`` is passed to ``SSim.run``/``CircuitSimulation.run`` functions of ``bglibpy``/``bluecellulab``

CV-validations transition has been verified in a similar fashion.

Commit message:

Set up basic OSS (#1)
* initial OSS version
* add github actions
* add copyright
* satisfy ruff
* disable tests that require SONATA circuit data in proj12
* remove blueconfig from readme

README.rst, after:

psp-validation
================

Validation of post synaptic potential.


Installation
------------

The project is available as a module.

.. code:: bash

    module load unstable neurodamus-hippocampus psp-validation

Usage
-----
It is recommended to run the project only on BB5.

Cli
^^^
The recommended usage is via the command line interface API. To run simulations of psp with
the test data:

.. code:: bash

    psp run
        -c tests/input_data/simple/simulation_config.json \
        -t tests/input_data/simple/usecases/hippocampus/targets.yaml \
        -e default \
        tests/input_data/pathway.yaml \
        -o out \
        -n 1 \
        -r 1 \
        -j 1 \
        --dump-traces \
        --dump-amplitudes \
        --seed 400

`-vv` options stands for verbosity of log output. There are 3 different values for it: `-v`, `-vv`,
`-vvv`. `-v` is for showing only warnings and errors. `-vv` additionally to `-v` shows info
messages. `-vvv` additionally shows debug messages. By default `-v` is used. This flag is common to
all NSE projects, and is usually used right after the main command and before the supplementary
command. The main command is `psp`, the supplementary command is `run`.

Testing
^^^^^^^
It is highly suggested to use BB5 for running tests manually.

.. code:: bash

    tox -e py310

Acknowledgements
================

The development of this software was supported by funding to the Blue Brain Project, a research center of the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), from the Swiss government’s ETH Board of the Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology.

For license and authors, see LICENSE.txt and AUTHORS.txt respectively.

Copyright (c) 2022-2024 Blue Brain Project/EPFL
