doc/source/install.rst, before:

Installation
============

module load
-----------

The easiest way to get ``psp-validation`` package is by using a module:

.. code-block:: console

    $ module purge
    $ module load $archive
    $ module load $model_specific_neurodamus
    $ module load psp-validation

Where ``$archive`` is either ``unstable`` for to get the latest, or a specific version.
To ensure the result is reproducible, please consider using a specific `BBP archive S/W module <https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/project/spaces/display/BBPHPC/BBP+ARCHIVE+SOFTWARE+MODULES>`_.

The ``$model_specific_neurodamus`` relates to ``NEURODAMUS Repository Reorganisation and Modules on BB5`` under `Loading Neurodamus <https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/project/spaces/display/BGLIB/NEURODAMUS+Repository+Reorganisation+and+Modules+on+BB5>`_.

At this point, ``psp`` command should be available, as well as compatible ``BGLibPy``, ``BluePy`` and ``neuron``, as well as compiled MOD files.


pip install
-----------

Alternatively, ``psp-validation`` is also distributed as a Python package available at BBP devpi server:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install -i https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/repository/devpi/simple/ psp-validation

Only Python 3.6+ is supported at the moment.

Getting BGLibPy / Neuron dependencies configured might be not straightforward, please refer to BGLibPy `installation instructions <https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/documentation/projects/BGLibPy/latest/installation.html>`_ for the details.

Commit message:

rework on the sonata support
* add comments to clarify the '_get_synapse_unique_value' situation

* don't temporarily remove DISPLAY from environment

* update changelog

* comment matplotlib

* remove unused helper function

* Anonymous references in docs

* Restrict 'matplotlib<3.9' due to errors in BlueCelluLab

* see https://github.com/BlueBrain/BlueCelluLab/issues/183

* $target -> $node_set

* Fix voltage clamp version of CV validation, combine get_peak_amplitudes functions [NSETM-1742]

* 'voltage' clamp version broken in: https://bbpgitlab.epfl.ch/nse/psp-validation/-/merge_requests/11

* fix deprecated efel.getFeatureValues > get_feature_values

* Update docs

* Print info when looking for pairs and warn if there are no pairs

* Remove leftover leading 'a' when printing gids

* fallback to 'EXC' if there's no synapse class in node population

* Use bluecellulab>=2.6.2 using afferent_section_pos from h5

* check docstrings, add changelog entry

* remove the leftover BlueConfig

* update readme

* restore tests for better comparison between versions + minor improvements

* remove unused imports

* don't use callbacks in the CLI

* Change get_pairs to only use one node population

* revert to old, more efficient filtering, simplify the get_pairs function

* change how 'add_projections' is interpreted

* get synapse type as population is always defined

* don't use is_eager (disables --help); change the order, instead)

* _get_synapse_unique_value only returns True/False or raises

* shuffle the connections before picking

* run cv validation with external simulation config

* templateless cv_validation

* clean up cv_validation/test_utils.py

* edge_population as CLI argument, not in pathway files

* Output each pathway in their own directory

* CV validation running

doc/source/install.rst, after:

Installation
============

module load
-----------

The easiest way to get ``psp-validation`` package is by using a module:

.. code-block:: console

    $ module purge
    $ module load $archive
    $ module load $model_specific_neurodamus
    $ module load psp-validation

Where ``$archive`` is either ``unstable`` for to get the latest, or a specific version.
To ensure the result is reproducible, please consider using a specific `BBP archive S/W module <https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/project/spaces/display/BBPHPC/BBP+ARCHIVE+SOFTWARE+MODULES>`__.

The ``$model_specific_neurodamus`` relates to ``NEURODAMUS Repository Reorganisation and Modules on BB5`` under `Loading Neurodamus <https://bbpteam.epfl.ch/project/spaces/display/BGLIB/NEURODAMUS+Repository+Reorganisation+and+Modules+on+BB5>`__.

At this point, ``psp`` command should be available, as well as compatible ``BlueCelluLab``, ``SNAP`` and ``neuron``, as well as compiled MOD files.


pip install
-----------

Alternatively, ``psp-validation`` is also distributed as a Python package:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install psp-validation

Currently, Python 3.7+ is supported.

Getting BlueCelluLab / Neuron dependencies configured might be not straightforward, please refer to BlueCelluLab `installation instructions <https://bluecellulab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ for the details.
